# Appcelerator Platform Services SDK for iOS -- Appcelerator Cloud Services

The Appcelerator Platform Services (APS) SDK for iOS provides APIs for your native iOS
application to access Appcelerator Cloud Services (ACS). 

## Getting the SDK ##

To download and start using the SDK, you first need to create new iOS application in [Dashboard](https://dashboard.appcelerator.com).
See [Managing Native Applications in Dashboard](http://docs.appcelerator.com/platform/latest/#!/guide/Managing_Native_Applications_in_Dashboard)
for details on creating a new native application. After you create an application, a service
key is generated that associates your application with all the Platform services. Dashboard also provides 
full instructions for enabling all Platform Services in your application. This guide will deal specifically
with enabling and using Appcelerator Cloud Services in an iOS application.

{@img instrux.png}

## Running the APSCloudExample Application ##

The SDK ZIP file includes an iOS sample project that demonstrates basic use of each of the Cloud APIs. 
To run the sample you first need to create a new application in Dashboard to obtain the necessary 
service application. You will then copy this key into the imported sample project's main Activity 
and then run the application.

**To create the APSCloudExample application in Dashboard:**

1. Login to [Appcelerator Dashboard](https://dashboard.appcelerator.com).
2. From the Orgs menu, select the organization to associate with the application.
3. Click the Apps menu and select **Add a Native App**.
4. In the New Native Application dialog, do the following:
    * Enter **APSCloudExampleApp** (or other name) in the **Name** field.
    * Select **iOS** from the **Platform** menu.
    * Select any category from the **Category** menu.
    {@img create_app.png}
5. Click **Next** and then click the **Overview** tab.
6. Click the **Services** tab, then click **Show Key** under **Cloud /  Performance /  Analytics**.
7. Select **Development** from the Environment menu, then click the clipboard icon to copy the key to your clipboard.
{@img copy_key.png}

Next, you'll import the APSCloudExample project into Xcode, copy the key from your clipboard into the
application's main activity, and run the application.

**To import the completed APSCloudExample project:**

1. In Xcode, open the **appcelerator-sdk-ios-1.0/examples/APSCloudExample.xcodeproj**.
3. Open **AppDelegate.m** and locate the following line of code.
4. Replace **<< YOUR APP KEY >>** with the application key you copied to your clipboard previously.
To learn where to find your application key, see [View Application Information](http://docs.appcelerator.com/platform/redirects/aps_key.html).

        String appKey = "<< YOUR APP KEY >>";

6. Run the application on an iOS device or simulator.

Once the application is running, try the following:

* Create a new user by selecting **Users > Create User**. Enter a username, password and password confirmation
and then click **Create**. If the user is created successfully, the following dialog is shown: 
{@img new_user_success.png}

* View the newly created user in Dashboard:
    1. Open [Dashboard](https://dashboard.appcelerator.com) and select your application from the Apps menu.
    2. Select **Cloud > Manage Data**, then click **Users** in the Manage Data Object table. You
    should see the user you created listed in the Users table.
    {@img verify_new_user.png}

## Enabling Cloud services in a new Project

Once you've [created an application in Dashboard](http://docs.appcelerator.com/platform/latest/#!/guide/Managing_Native_Applications_in_Dashboard), 
downloaded the SDK, and obtained your application service key, there are few steps to enable Cloud service in your iOS project.
The steps are slightly different if you are using Xcode 6 or 5.

**To enable the Cloud service in an existing Xcode project**:

1. Add the **appcelerator-sdk-ios-1.0.0/Appcelerator.framework** folder to your project:
    * For Xcode 5 projects, drag the **Appcelerator.framework** folder to your project's Frameworks folder, 
    making sure **Copy items into destination group's folder** is checked, and click **Finish**.
    * For Xcode 6 projects, drag the **Appcelerator.framework** folder to the project's root folder, 
    making sure **Copy Items if Needed** is checked, and click **Finish**.
2. On your project's **_Build Phases_** tab, expand the **_Link Binary With Libraries_** section and add 
the **libsqlite3.dylib** and **libz.dylib** frameworks.
4. On your project's **Build Settings** tab, click **All** in the top-left corner, then expand the **_Linking_** section.
6. In the **_Other Linker Flags_** field, enter **-ObjC**.
{@img otherlinker.png}
5. Import Appcelerator.h into your application delegate:

        #import <Appcelerator/Appcelerator.h>

6. Lastly, initialize Platform services by calling replacing **<< YOUR APP KEY >>** with the service key 
generated by Dashboard when you created your application. (See 
[View Application Information](http://docs.appcelerator.com/platform/redirects/aps_key.html) for how to
locate your application key.)

        [[APSServiceManager sharedInstance] enableWithAppKey:@"<<YOUR APP KEY>>"];

At this point, your application can begin making API calls.

## Making API Calls and Handling Responses

The iOS framework includes a collection of classes whose methods map to 
individual REST API method endpoints. For example, the [\[APSUsers create\]](http://docs.appcelerator.com/aps-sdk-apidoc/latest/ios/Classes/APSUsers.html#//api/name/create:withBlock:) method corresponds to the
[`/users/create.json`](http://docs.appcelerator.com/cloud/latest/#!/api/Users-method-create) method
endpoint.

Alternatively, you can use the generic [\[APSCloud sendRequest\]](http://docs.appcelerator.com/aps-sdk-apidoc/latest/ios/Classes/APSCloud.html#//api/name/sendRequest:method:data:handler:) method to make REST calls directly 
against the Cloud APIs. For more information, see [Making Generic REST API Calls](#!/guide/ios-section-making-generic-rest-apis-method-calls).

### Building Request Parameters

The first parameter of each Cloud API method is a `NSDictionary` object that contains the of 
parameters to send with the request. For example, the [\[APSPhotos show\]](http://docs.appcelerator.com/aps-sdk-apidoc/latest/ios/Classes/APSPhotos.html#//api/name/show:withBlock:) method takes a `photo_id` parameter
whose value is, naturally, the ID of the photo to show. 

    // Create dictionary of parameters to be passed with the request
    NSDictionary *data = @{@"photo_id": self.photoId};
    [APSPhotos show:data withBlock:^(APSResponse *e) {
        // Handle response
    }];

### Handling Responses

The second parameter of each method call is a block that is passed an [APSResponse](http://docs.appcelerator.com/aps-sdk-apidoc/latest/ios/Classes/APSResponse.html) 
whose properties contain information about the response. For instance,
the `success` property contains a boolean indicating if the method call was successful or not; 
the `response` property returns a JSON-encoded object with the results of the method call.

    NSDictionary *data = @{@"photo_id": self.photoId};
    [APSPhotos show:data withBlock:^(APSResponse *e) {
        // The block will be called on the thread the request was started on
        if (e.success) {
            // Remove the backslashes from URLs in the JSON
            self.textView.text = [e.responseString stringByReplacingOccurrencesOfString:@"\\" withString:@""];
        } else {
            [Utils handleErrorInResponse:e];
        }
    }];

Note that the block will be called on the thread that the request was started on.

#### Example: APSUsers Login Call with Response Handler

The following example logs in an existing ACS user by their username and password. After a successful 
login, the application displays an alert indicating a successful login.

    // Create dictionary of parameters to be passed with the request
    NSDictionary *data = @{
       @"login": self.usernameField.text,
       @"password": self.passwordField.text
    };
    
    [APSUsers login:data withBlock:^(APSResponse *e) {
        // The block will be called on the thread the request was started on
        if (e.success) {
            NSString *userId = [[[e.response objectForKey:@"users"] objectAtIndex:0] objectForKey:@"id"];
            NSString *msg = [NSString stringWithFormat:@"Logged in! You are now logged in as %@", userId];
            [[[UIAlertView alloc] initWithTitle:@"Success" message:msg delegate:nil cancelButtonTitle:@"OK" otherButtonTitles:nil] show];
        } else {
            [Utils handleErrorInResponse:e];
        }
    }];

### Monitoring Request Progress

For Cloud API methods that involve uploading large files, such as [\[APSPhotos create\]](http://docs.appcelerator.com/aps-sdk-apidoc/latest/ios/Classes/APSPhotos.html#//api/name/create:withBlock:progressBlock:) or [APSFiles create], 
there is an overloaded version that takes an additional `progressBlock` parameter. This parameter
is a code block that is periodically invoked and passed a float value indicating the progress of the request, 
and a boolean indicating if the request is for an upload (YES) or download (NO).

#### Example: APSPhotos Create Call with Progress Handler

The following example creates a new Photo object from a binary photo attachment. The `progressBlock` 
code block sets the `progress` property on a `ProgressBar` object, displaying the 
    status of the upload.

    NSDictionary *data = @{
        @"photo": self.photoData,
        @"photo_sync_sizes[]": @"small_240"
    };
    [APSPhotos create:data withBlock:^(APSResponse *e) {
        // The block will be called on the thread the request was started on
        if (e.success) {
            [[[UIAlertView alloc] initWithTitle:@"Success" message:@"Uploaded!" delegate:nil cancelButtonTitle:@"OK" otherButtonTitles:nil] show];
            self.photoData = nil;
        } else {
            [Utils handleErrorInResponse:e];
        }
        self.createButton.hidden = NO;
    } progressBlock:^(float progress, BOOL upload) {
        // The block will be called on the thread the request was started on
        self.progressBar.progress = progress;
    }];

## Making Generic REST APIs Method Calls

The [\[APSCloud sendRequest\]](http://docs.appcelerator.com/aps-sdk-apidoc/latest/ios/Classes/APSCloud.html#//api/name/sendRequest:method:data:handler:) 
method lets you easily make REST API calls directly against ACS, rather than using the specialized classes. In general, you
should use the specialized classes as they provide an easier API. However, if new REST methods
are deployed to the APS Cloud backend, this approach lets you immediately start using those methods 
without waiting for an update to the SDK.

To make a generic request, you call [\[APSCloud sharedInstance\]](http://docs.appcelerator.com/aps-sdk-apidoc/latest/ios/Classes/APSCloud.html#//api/name/sharedInstance) to get a reference to the shared APSCloud
object, and then call its [sendRequest](http://docs.appcelerator.com/aps-sdk-apidoc/latest/ios/Classes/APSCloud.html#//api/name/sendRequest:method:data:handler:) method. For each call, you must specify the following:

  * REST API method endpoint relative to "api.cloud.appcelerator.com/v1". Method endpoints are listed in the corresponding entries in the 
  [REST API documentation](http://docs.appcelerator.com/cloud/latest/#!/api).
  * The HTTP method to use.
  * Data to send with the request.

For example, to [create a post](http://docs.appcelerator.com/cloud/latest/#!/api/Posts-method-create),
pass the `sendRequest()` method the following information:

  * REST API method endpoint: `posts/create.json`
  * The HTTP method to use: `POST`
  * Data to send with the request: at minimum, you must specify the `content` property.

The following example calls [users/login.json](http://docs.appcelerator.com/cloud/latest/#!/api/Users-method-login) 
REST method directly and logs the result to the console.

    NSDictionary *data = [NSDictionary dictionaryWithObjectsAndKeys:
                                        @"jalter", @"login",
                                        @"pass", @"password",
                                        nil];
    [[APSCloud sharedInstance] sendRequest:@"users/login.json" method:@"POST" data:datahandler:^(APSResponse *e) {
        NSLog(@"SUCCESS: %hhd", e.success);
        NSLog(@"ERROR: %hhd", e.error);
        NSLog(@"MESSAGE: %@", e.message);
    }];

## Working with Push Notifications

The  [`APSPushNotifications`](http://docs.appcelerator.com/aps-sdk-apidoc/latest/ios/Classes/APSPushNotifications.html) 
class lets your application subscribe, send and receive push notifications. To use this class,
you must first do the following:

* [Configure push notification services](http://docs.appcelerator.com/platform/latest/#!/guide/Configuring_push_services-section-37551713_Configuringpushservices-ConfiguringpushservicesforiOSdevices) for your application.
* [Register your application](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/Chapters/IPhoneOSClientImp.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40008194-CH103-SW2) to obtain the necessary device token.

Once push services have been configured, and you've obtained a device token by registering your application
to receive remote notifications, you can start calling methods of the `APSPushNotifications` class. For
example, in the following example the user is subscribed to receive notifications from the channel
named "friend_channel".

    // Create dictionary of parameters to be passed with the request
    NSDictionary *subscribeData = @{
                @"device_token": @"<DEVICE_TOKEN_STRING",
                @"channel": @"friend_channel"
                };
    [APSPushNotifications subscribeToken:subscribeData withBlock:^(APSResponse *e) {
        if (e.success) {
            // Subscribed to channel
        } else {
            // Error subscribing to channel
        }
    }];
